# Luminex Dataset Soluble Factors HZI

## INCENTIVE Project

INCENTIVE is a 5-year project funded by an EU Horizon H2020 grant
([*Indo-European Consortium for Next Generation Influenza Vaccine
Innovation*](https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/874866)).  One of the
main goals is to advance knowledge of the underlying mechanisms of
poor responsiveness to influenza vaccines. This goal will be achieved
by performing comprehensive immune profiling of responders and
non-responders to a licensed, quadrivalent, inactivated, influenza
vaccine (QIV) in vulnerable populations: elderly ($\ge$ 60 years;
QIV1), children (3-11 years; QIV2) and in infants (6-7 months; QIV3).
Blood samples were collected from the trials' subjects before and at 
specific time points after vaccination. The consortia aims to
identify the mechanisms and biomarkers of vaccine responsiveness.


### Summary of the study design:

- Study duration: elderly 1 month; children and infants: 2 months

- Visits: Screening, D0, D3, D28, (+ D7: adults; + D56: children and
  infants)

- Vaccination: at D0, (+D28: children and infants)

- Blood draw clinical at screening; immunology at D0, D3, D28 (+ D7:
  elderly; + D56: children and infants)

## This Dataset in Context

This dataset contains levels of soluble factors measured in samples
derived from children (QIV2) and infants (QIV3). For this, whole blood
samples were stimulated with influenza HA antigens for the assessment of
antigen-specific memory T cell responses.

Stimulation was performed using the following vaccine antigens
(supplied by NIBSC):

- A/Victoria/2570/2019 (NIBSC \# 20/232)

- A/Tasmania/503/2020 (NIBSC \# 21/116)

- B/Washington/02/2019 (NIBSC \# 19/238)

- B/Phuket/3073/2013 (NIBSC \# 21/136)

## Details of the soluble factor Luminex^®^ assay 

For the stimulation, heparinized whole blood is diluted in culture
medium and incubated individually with each of the influenza virus
antigens. Positive (SEB; staphylococcal enterotoxin B) and negative
controls are also included in the assay. Culture supernatants are
collected after 5 days and are stored at -80° C to be tested for
soluble factors by Luminex^®^ System Assay according to the respective
protocol. In brief, supernatants are mixed with beads possessing
specific binding sites for 35 analytes. Beads with specific binding
sites are discernable by their inherent fluorescence and bound
analytes are detected by fluorescence labeling. Results are given as
concentration (pg/ml) and median fluorescence intensities (MFI). 
The Luminex assay is a multiplexed assay with all 35 analyzed being 
measured in one well simultaneously for each sample. This entails that 
any errors derived from sample abnormalities or handling inconsistencies
will show up in all analytes.

The assay contained beads specific for the detection of the following
analytes: APRIL, EGF, ENA-78 (CXCL5), Eotaxin (CCL11), FGF-2, G-CSF
(CSF-3), GM-CSF, HGF, IFN-$\alpha$, IFN-$\gamma$, IL-1-$\beta$,
IL-1RA, IL-2, IL-2R, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-7, IL-8 (CXCL8), IL-10,
IL-12/IL-23p40, IL-13, IL-15, IL-17A (CTLA-8), IL-18, IL-21, IL-27,
IP-10 (CXCL10), MCP-1 (CCL2), MIG (CXCL9), MIP-1$\alpha$ (CCL3),
MIP-1$\beta$ (CCL4), SDF-1$\alpha$ (CXCL12a), TNF-$\alpha$, VEGF-A.

A 7-point standard curve (1:4 dilution steps) as well as a blank sample (assay
buffer and beads) and 2-3 bridging samples (BS) were measured for each
plate in order to assess measurement consistency. Samples were diluted
according to the protocol and soluble factors were measured in a total
volume of 50 µl.

For all samples the following conditions were
measured:

VIC
: A/Victoria/2570/2019 (NIBSC \# 20/232)

TAS
: A/Tasmania/503/2020 (NIBSC \# 21/116)

WAS
: B/Washington/02/2019 (NIBSC \# 19/238)

PUK
: B/Phuket/3073/2013 (NIBSC \# 21/136)

NEG
: Unstimulated

MIX
: Mix of all four antigens

For an unspecific stimulation control, wells were stimulated using
staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB). SEB samples were measured for
selected samples. All conditions and all time points of one sample
were measured on the same plate.

## Specific Details of the Data Processing

Raw data files generated by the Luminex^®^ System are exported as [CSV
files](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comma-separated_values).  For
further processing, the raw data files are loaded into the
ProcartaPlex^®^ Analysis App (Thermo Fisher Scientific). Here a
five-parameter logistic fit is used to calculate the standard curve
and derive the sample parameters. Parameters are reported as median
fluorescence intensity (MFI) and concentrations (pg/ml). All data sets are exported as reports.


Files Uploaded
==============

`README-HZI-LUMINEX.md`
:   This file. Uses *Markdown*, a text format that is readable
		directly or in a nicely formatted style. See:
	[*Markdown Guide*](https://www.markdownguide.org).

`LUMINEX-INCENTIVE-HZI-FINAL-Cytokines_Concentrations.xlsx`
: File containing the mean fluorescence intensities (MFI) and
  concentrations (pg/ml) of the measured analytes for samples derived
  from the clinical trials QIV2 and QIV3. (**TO BE DELIVERED**)

`Dictionary-HZI-LUMINEX.xlsx`
: A data dictionary describing the contents of the file,

`INCENTIVE-LUMINEX-HZI-Compiled Reports`,
: A compiled file containing all reports generated by the analysis software app for each measurement run.


Contact
=======

For questions about this dataset, please contact:

```
Stephanie Trittel
Scientist
Helmholtz -- Center for Infection Research
Department of Vaccinology
Inhoffenstraße 7
38124 Braunschweig
Germany

Tel. +49 531 6181 4609
Email: stephanie.trittel@helmholtz-hzi.de
```
